TEKWAR:  README FILE    8/23/95  

Welcome to the Tek War Demo. Before you 
get started there are a few things you need to know. 

First, the graphics in TEKWAR are stunning. Unless you have a fast 
Pentium with a good video card, we recommend playing in 
320 x 200 or 360 x 360 mode.  Please be aware we are optimizing 
Tek War: The Game for speed.  By it's release date, the optimization
will be complete.  There was no way to have the optimization in place
for the demo. 

Second, you can play Tek War without the gore.  Simply add 'nogore' to 
command that begins the game. i.e. 'tekwar nogore'.

Third,  please review the keyboard map in order to learn which keys
do what.  You can map the keyboard almost any way you like.  The keyboard
configuration appears when you run the game for the first time (after typing
'tekwar'.)  To see the configuration at a later time type 'setup'. 

Fourth, the mouse has added functionality with which you may not be familiar.
By letting off the RMB while moving the mouse in the direction opposite 
the direction you were previously moving in, you will switch the direction 
in which you move the next time you hold the button down.  i.e. you 
start with it set to walk forward when the RMB is pushed, if you then let go of the mouse button and pull 
the mouse back, you will now go in reverse the next time you hold down 
the right mouse button.  Now you can get out of trouble as easily as you got
into it and retreat while still being able to fire.  
The default sensitivity of how far the mouse needs to be moved  to change 
the default direction is set to 100.  After playing for a while if you would
like to customize it to accommodate your personal style, press  [F10] and move
the mouse forward or back to increase or decrease the setting, 
The lower the number the less you have to move the mouse, the larger, the 
further you must move the mouse to switch direction.  When you have set the sensitivity to the level you desire, hit [F10] again to 
save and exit the adjustment utility.

Fifth, the AI in TEKWAR is very sophisticated.  The Tekgoons 
don’t just walk stupidly toward you shooting, while ignoring your shots.  
They may guard a location, chase you, or even stalk you.  In 
combat, don’t be surprised if they dodge, duck and take advantage 
of cover.  If you notice a door you closed is now open, 
watch out. A goon may be stalking you!  On the hard setting, it only takes 
a few hits to dust you.  The motto, therefore: save often.  

Sixth, You start out with two weapons. Others are to be found.
The first is the Kralov CEG 15 Stunner. The second is the C & W 
Model 2040.  The third weapon is the Shrike DBK.  The Shrike is 
a very powerful energy weapon. Without the Accutrak, though, it's
not easy to aim.  Good luck finding the Accutrak.

To skip the intro/briefing screens press [Esc].  The F1 
key brings up the help menu.

Have Fun!!!


