
DANGEROUS DAVE in "TROPHY TROUBLE"
   by John Romero

Clyde Cooper, son of a NASA scientist, won all the Idaville skateboarding
trophies.  You always coveted those trophies, so you bet him you could win a
footrace against him, as long as you pick the course and get a four foot
headstart.  He agreed and you chose the course--a ladder!  You won the trophies
but Clyde was mad and hid them in a deserted pirate's hideout!

"Just try and find them, fella!  Ha ha ha!" laughed Clyde as he walked away.
"The entrance is down that silver tube...."


YOUR QUEST

You, yes, YOU, Dangerous Dave, must find the ten trophies and escape from 
the pirate's hideout alive!

You'll face deadly WeirdWeeds, infernal FearsomeFire, horrible WickedWater, and
maybe the terrible inhabitants of the hideout!  Get the trophy and get to the
door!

Of course, you'll have help against these foes.  You might find some of the old
pirate's pistols, and since the hideout is on the Cooper's land, Clyde's dad
might have left some experimental jetpacks around.  But be careful--they have
very little fuel!


CONTROLLING DAVE

You can use the joystick, keyboard, or mouse to control Dave.  I'd recommend
them in that order--joystick is the best.

		JOYSTICK	KEYBOARD	MOUSE
	Left    Left            Left arrow (4)	Move left
	Right	Right   	Right arrow (5)	Move right
	Jump	Up		Up arrow (8)    Move up
	Shoot	Button 1	Ctrl		Button 1
	Jetpack	Button 2	Alt		Button 2
	(on/off)


OTHER CONTROLS

Pressing F1 will bring up a help section.

Pressing F2 will take you to the CONTROL PANEL. From here you may choose what
graphic mode you'd like to play in (CGA, EGA, VGA), what kind of controls you'd
like to use (joystick, mouse, keyboard), and Sound (on or off).  Once the
settings are as you want them, press ESC.

F3 restarts the game (from the title screen).

F9 pauses (F9 again to continue play).

F10 or ESC will quit DANGEROUS DAVE.



PLAYING HINTS

Collect everything (except for the aliens, ho ho).

There may be areas you can only reach by trying something dangerous....

Watch our for shoddy construction in some places.


CONCLUSION

Get those trophies and show Clyde he can't pull a fast one on DANGEROUS DAVE!
