			    ++  ULTIMATE GIN  ++
		    (C) COPYRIGHT 1993 ACCIDENTAL SOFTWARE
			"If it's good, it's ACCIDENTAL"

			     TABLE OF CONTENTS 

			       1. Game features
			       2. System requirements
			       3. Registration
			       4. Registration benefits
			       5. Installation / Set up
			       6. Game start up
			       7. Menu
			       8. Selecting an Opponent
			       9. Playing the Game
			      10. Game menu
			      11. Game play
			      12. Score Board 
			      13. Use With Windows   
			      14. Other Ultimate Games      
			      15. Trouble shooting
       
			       GAME FEATURES

1.  Play GIN RUMMY against one of 8 notorious characters.
2.  Select the GIN RUMMY variation you like to play.
    a. STANDARD 10 KNOCK: The knock value is set to 10.
    b. OKLAHOMA GIN ACE = 1: (knock value based on the value of the first 
       card to be turned face up, if it's an Ace then the knock value is 1).
    c. OKLAHOMA GIN ACE = GIN: (knock value based on the value of the first
       card to be turned face up, if it's an Ace then the knock value is GIN).
    d. HOLLYWOOD SCORING: A scoring device where 3 games are played at once.
3.  Play up to 40 games per match against any one of the 8 computer generated
    players.  
4.  All completed matches against any of the opponents will be saved and 
    recalled each time that opponent is played against.
5.  Start a new match at any time (will delete all matches previously on file 
    for that opponent and start with new data.)
6.  The following items can be set to range of values noted below.
    1. GAME SCORE: Range 100 - 300 (the point count that must be reached or
       exceeded to win the game.)
    2. GAME BONUS: Range 100 - 300 (the amount of bonus points received for
       winning the game.)
    3. SKUNK BONUS: Range 100 - 300 (the amount of bonus points received if
       a player wins the game and his or her opponent has not scored during 
       the game.)
    4. BOX BONUS: Range 0 - 50 (the amount of points received for each hand 
       won by either player during the game.)
    5. GIN BONUS: Range 0 - 50 (the amount of points received for winning a
       hand with GIN.)
    6. UNDER KNOCK BONUS: Range 0 - 50 (the amount of points received for
       winning the hand by having fewer or equal points in deadwood to your
       opponent when he or she knocks.)

			    SYSTEM REQUIREMENTS

1.  IBM or 100% compatible computer 
2.  EGA/VGA Video adapter with 256K RAM on video card
3.  Hard disk 
4.  540K free RAM required

RECOMMENDED:

1.  Mouse 
2.  Sound Blaster
3.  80286 or better processor

				REGISTRATION 

1. The game supplied is an unregistered version.  This version is
   provided as a demonstration of the game capabilities and provides 
   a fully functioning GIN simulation.  Some game enhancements 
   are reserved for those users who find this game to be a worthwhile 
   investment. Shareware is a try before you buy marketing method. If 
   you make regular use of this software, you are expected to "purchase"
   it by paying the registration fee. As an additional incentive to 
   register this program, I will supply you with the most recent version
   of this game on disk when you register. The registered version has 
   several game enhancements not available in the unregistered copy.  
   These features are listed below.

			   REGISTRATION BENEFITS

1. Your registered version will no longer have registration reminders
   on screen.
2. Your registered version will allow you to play GIN with any of the 8
   opponents.  The non registered version only allows play with the 4
   players at the top of the players screen.
3. Your registered version will allow you to save and recall the previous 
   games against any and all computer players.  This will allow you to 
   continue a previously started match.
4. Sound Blaster support is provided.  Registered users can order the 
   optional Sound Blaster Voice Pack if desired. These files will allow you 
   to hear digital recordings of the words seen in most talk balloons by
   the computer opponents.  This provides for a more realistic and entertain-
   ing game.  NOTE: When all voice files are decompressed to your hard disk,
   they will occupy more than 1.2 mega bytes of space.  This feature requires 
   a Sound Blaster or 100% compatible system.
5. Your registered version will keep your individual preferences (listed 
   below) on file and will restore these as the game default when you
   sign in with this name at a future time.
	a. Game speed
	b. Fan on or off
	c. Talk on or off
	d. The type of Gin being played (Standard, Oklahoma, Hollywood score)
	e. The selected values for the Game Score and Bonus Values
	f. All game scores for all matches against all computer players.

6. Registered users can order additional "ULTIMATE" games at a 20% discount.
   The registered version of the games "Ultimate Blackjack" and "Ultimate 
   Baccarat" can be purchased for $8.00 each (regular price is $10.00).  If 
   you order the Voice Pack for Ultimate Gin, you will receive the Voice Pack
   for all other "ULTIMATE" games you purchase free.  If these games are 
   ordered at one time, you need only pay one shipping and handling fee for 
   the entire order.  See "OTHER ULTIMATE GAMES" at the end of this file
   for a description of these games.

			     REGISTRATION FEE 
   
   ---------------------------  OPTION #1  --------------------------------
      (If you want a new disk with the most current version of the game) 

   Ultimate Gin registration ------ $10.00 
   Shipping, handling & disk ------ $ 3.00
				    ------
				    $13.00  Gets you current game on disk.

   ----------------------------  OPTION #2  --------------------------------
       (If you want current game plus sound blaster voice pack on disk) 

   Ultimate Gin registration ------ $10.00
   Sound Blaster Voice Pack -------- $5.00  
   Shipping, handling & disk ------- $3.00                                     
				     -----
   Total Fee for Game + Voice   --- $18.00  Gets you current game & voice pack
    
   ----------------------------  OPTION #3  --------------------------------
		  (If you want all 3 Ultimate games on disk) 

   Ultimate Gin registration ------ $10.00
   Ultimate Blackjack (reduced) --- $ 8.00
   Ultimate Baccarat (reduced) ---- $ 8.00
   Shipping, handling & disks ------ $3.00                                     
				     -----
   Total Fee for all 3 games     -- $29.00  Gets you 3 current games          
					    (saves $10 over individual orders)
   ----------------------------  OPTION #4  --------------------------------
     (If you want all 3 Ultimate games on disk plus Voice Packs for all 3) 

   Ultimate Gin registration ------ $10.00
   Ultimate Blackjack (reduced) --- $ 8.00
   Ultimate Baccarat (reduced) ---- $ 8.00
   Sound Blaster Voice Pack -------- $5.00 for all 3 voice packs  
   Shipping, handling & disks ------ $3.00                                     
				     -----
   Total Fee for games + Sound   -- $34.00  Gets you 3 games & voice packs
					    (saves $20 over individual orders)
   California residents only, add 7.75% sales tax.

   Please send a check or money order to  ACCIDENTAL SOFTWARE
					  13245 SKIOMAH RD.
					  APPLE VALLEY, CA. 92308
					  (619) 247-2804
   Sorry no credit cards.

	    PRESS "P" TO PRINT OUT A REGISTRATION / ORDER FORM.

A registration / order form can be printed out using this utility. Press 
"P" and select choice #2.  Specific printer support is not provided, but
the form is ASCII text and should print on most printers.  If you can't
print out of copy of the registration / order form, just send me a note
and let me know what option you want.  The order form text file is 
"ORDERFRM.TXT", you can load it into your word processor for print out if 
desired.  Please include the type of disk desired. 

Foreign orders please use an international money order and specify U.S.
currency.

			     INSTALLATION
 
1.  Place the disk you have received in the proper drive.
2.  Switch to the drive the disk is in.  Example -- if the disk is in B: 
drive type "B:" then "ENTER".
3.  Type "INSTALL" followed by the drive you want to install the game to.
Omit the ":" after the drive letter.

	Example:   To install the game to C DRIVE, type "INSTALL C"

This will install the game to C DRIVE in the directory "GIN".  If you want 
to install the game to a different directory, specify the directory after 
the drive letter.

	Example.  To install the game to C DRIVE in the directory "GAMES" you
would type "INSTALL C GAMES". 

4.  All disk files are compressed and must be decompressed before the game 
can be played.  The compression and extraction routine used for diskette data
is LHA which is copyrighted by Haruyasu Yoshizaki and is used as per the terms
of the Mr. Yoshizaki's documentation.
 
			     GAME START UP

1.  The executable file is GIN.EXE.  Type GIN then push Enter to start.
2.  Game credits will show.  Shorten by pressing  ESCAPE.
3.  Sign in with the name you will play under.  Saved game information 
will reference this name (Registered version only). The name may be 
changed by pushing ESCAPE if an opponent has not yet been selected.
4.  Choose an opponent or select MENU for game options.

				 MENU

1.  Click on the [MENU] button or push the up arrow key on the keyboard 
to select.

2.  "GAME VARIATIONS": This item will be selected.  Choose one of the 
game variations offered.  This will be the game that you will always play 
anytime you sign in with this name in the future (unless you change this 
selection at a later time -- registered version only).

3.  "SCORE OPTIONS": Select new values for the game and other score/bonus 
amounts here.  To do this, select the item you want to change, then click 
the + or - box with the hand pointer or use the + or - keys on the keyboard.  
Double clicking on the "DEFAULT VALUES" item will change all values back 
to the game default settings. (see help for a summary of these).  If you 
want to play a new match against any opponent double click the "NEW MATCH" 
item.  This will start a new match with all new games.  "HOLLYWOOD" scoring 
may be selected by double clicking on this item.  All of the last 3 items 
on this menu are selected by double clicking the item.  When selected a 
double carat "< >" will show to the right of the item.  To deselect one of 
these items simply double click on it again.  Push the Enter key to produce 
the same results as double clicking an item.

4.  "HELP":  This item will show several screens of information about the 
game.  Information concerning the playing capabilities of each "computer 
player" can be found under "PLAYER INFO".  In general, the better players 
can be found toward the bottom of the sign on screen.  "ESCAPE", push this 
item to exit the menu or click anywhere outside of the active menu that is 
pulled down.

5.  "REGISTRATION INFO":  This provides several screens of information 
concerning registration.  You can print out a registration form from this
menu.
 
			  SELECTING AN OPPONENT

1.  Push the square button above the player's head to select as an opponent.  
Alternately, you can push the key on the keyboard that corresponds to the 
underlined letter in the opponent's name or cycle through the players by 
pushing the left or right arrow keys. When an opponent is selected, the 
"PLAY GIN" button appears as does information about the number of games and 
scores from your previous match with this opponent (Registered version
only).  

2.  You may change your selection as many times as you want.  If you have 
not selected "NEW MATCH" from the Menu as explained in "SCORE OPTIONS" 
above, you will add games to the existing match games (if any).  The game 
will store up to 40 games per match (registered version only).

3.  To play GIN, push the "PLAY GIN" button or the "A" key on the keyboard 
or push RETURN after a player has been selected.  If you have not selected 
a gin variation from the Menu as explained above, you will play standard 
Gin with the default game scores and bonus values.

				PLAYING THE GAME

1.  The GIN room appears.  After your opponent appears, the hand pointer 
will point to the flashing "DEAL CARDS" button.  Push this button or press 
"ENTER" or "Space Bar" on the keyboard to deal the cards.  An item from the 
menu may be selected at any time.

				    GAME MENU

1.  GAMES HISTORY:  Displays the results of previous games you have played 
against this opponent.

2.  HANDS HISTORY:  Displays the results of previous hands played against 
this opponent during the current game.  The format displayed is (this hand 
points)  --  (total hand points).  Example: You won the first hand with a 
total of 10 points,  the score will be recorded as follows  10 -- 10.  
This shows that your points for this hand were 10 and that you now have a 
total of 10 points.  The Score board at the top right of the screen also 
displays information about the game and hand scores.

3.  NEW DECK:  Use this to request a new deck of cards for the next game.  
There are 3 cards decks available that will be rotated with a new selection.

4.  SPEED:  Use this to change the game speed.  Click on this button to 
bring up the speed adjustment window.  To set a faster game speed, press 
and hold the left mouse button while the hand pointer is on the base of 
the speed indicator and move it towards the + sign.  To slow the game 
down, move it towards the - sign.  You may use the + or - keys or the 
arrow keys on the keyboard to accomplish the same result.  Push the SPEED 
button again or push ESCAPE to exit the speed routine.

5.  TALK:  Use this button to open a sub menu with the following two
items.  To exit this sub menu push the TALK button again or push ESCAPE.

	a.  Comments:  This is used to turn on or off the comments made by 
the opponent when he or she picks up the card you just discarded.  These
comments will slow the game down, and some may consider them to be too much.
When the button is up, these comments are eliminated.  All other game 
information will be displayed and voices will be heard for talk balloons
if the Sound Blaster is selected and the optional voice pack has been 
purchased.

	b.  Sound Blaster:  This is used to turn on or off the Sound Blaster 
voices if a Sound Blaster or 100% compatible card is found on the system.  
If no card is found the button cannot be activated.  Down is Sound Blaster 
on, up is Sound Blaster deselected.

6.  FAN:  Use this to turn the fan off or on.  Some opponents will not 
think quite as well when the fan is turned off.  Those that the fan 
effects will say so if the Comments button is selected.  The default 
selection is Fan on.  The spider crawling on the window will hide when the
fan is off.

7.  MAIN MENU:  Use this to return to the Main sign on screen to select 
a different opponent or game variation or possibly change the values for
game scores, etc.  NOTE: When this item is selected before a game is 
complete (if one has been started), the hands played so far in this 
game are lost.  All completed games will be saved and added to those 
that may exist from a previous match.

8.  QUIT:  Self Explanatory.

				GAME PLAY

1.  Push the button by the flashing Deal Cards message or push SPACE BAR 
or ENTER.

2.  The cards will be dealt by your opponent first.  Once the cards are 
dealt,  You must either take the show card or pass.  To pass, move the 
hand pointer to the pass button and push the left or right mouse key or 
push the "P" key on the keyboard.  Move the hand pointer to the show 
card and push either mouse key if you want to add this card to your hand.
Alternately you may use the keyboard left and right arrow keys to select 
the card.  Once selected with the keyboard, you may move the card to your 
hand by pushing "ENTER".  The card will automatically move to your hand.

3.  After the initial card is played or passed, you may select a card 
from the STOCK pile or the DISCARD pile when it is your turn.  This is 
done in the manner just explained in #2 above.

4. CHOOSING A DISCARD:  Select a card in your hand to discard by moving 
the hand pointer to the card you want to discard then push the LEFT MOUSE 
BUTTON or move the hand pointer with the arrow keys.  The card that is 
gray is selected as the potential discard.  To perform the DISCARD, move 
the hand pointer to the discard stack (up turned cards or the position just
to the right of the stock card pile) then push the left mouse key or 
Enter on the keyboard.

5.  KNOCKING:  You can request a KNOCK at any time after you have selected 
a card from the discard or stock pile and before you discard a card.  Select 
the card you will be discarding (highlight it gray as indicated above) but 
do not discard it yet.  Move the hand pointer to the KNOCK button or push 
"K" on the keyboard.  Your cards will be separated into melds and deadwood 
at the bottom of the screen, with the discard you selected to the far left 
and colored gray.  If your total deadwood count exceeds the KNOCK VALUE 
(usually 10 unless playing Oklahoma Gin) a panel with your deadwood count 
will appear to let you know that you cannot KNOCK yet.  Push the OK button 
on this panel when you want to resume the game.  If your total deadwood is 
less than or equal to the knock value, the panel will appear with the 
message.......

		    KNOCKING WITH (value of your deadwood)
		       1.  REJECT  -->     OK
		       2.  ACCEPT -->      OK

Select REJECT if you want to continue playing without KNOCKING or ACCEPT 
to take the KNOCK and end the hand.

6.  CARD LAYOFF:  The non knocking player will layoff any cards he/she can 
against the knocker's melds (providing the knocker did not knock with gin).  
The cards laid off will be gray in color.

7.  SAVED GAME INFORMATION:  The following game information is saved when 
the game is quit (registered version only).

		1.  Game Speed
		2.  Fan on or off
		3.  Talk on or off
		4.  The type of Gin being played
		5.  Game score value and bonus values
		6.  All game scores for any match against a computer player.

This information loaded for each game you play and will become the default 
settings for your gin matches (registered version only).
			  
				SCORE BOARD      

The score board located on the top right side of the main game screen con-
sists of the following areas. 

			   NAME              NAME   
	     PREV    |                 |                 |  
	     THIS    |                 |                 |     
	     BONUS   |                 |                 |
	     TOTAL   |                 |                 |
	     WON     |                 |                 |

			    STANDARD GIN SCORING

      1. PREV: Shows the previous total score accomplished by each player 
	 during this game.  
      2. THIS: Shows the score achieved by each player for this hand.
      3. BONUS: Shows the bonus score awarded for this hand (if any).
      4. TOTAL: Shows the total score (bonus + this + prev) awarded so far  
	 for the current game.
      5. WON: Shows the number of hands won by each player during this
	 game so far.

			     HOLLYWOOD SCORING

      1. PREV: This item is N/A for Hollywood since 3 games are played 
	 simultaneously.
      2. THIS: Shows the score achieved by each player for this hand.
      3. BONUS: Shows the bonus score awarded for this hand (if any).
      4. TOTAL: Shows the total score (bonus + this) awarded for this
	 hand only. Select HANDS SUMMARY for a review of each hand so
	 far during the game.
      5. WON: Shows the number of hands won by each player during this 
	 game so far.

			    USE WITH WINDOWS

1.  This product was not written specifically for windows compatibility,
but in most cases it can be used from WINDOWS 3.1.  Compatibility with 
WINDOWS is not guaranteed.  To use this product from windows perform the 
following......

	a. Install the program normally from DOS. Make note of the drive
	   and directory on which you installed the program.
	b. Start Windows.  Bring up the Program Manager.

	   NOTE: If you want to place this file into an existing Program
	   Group, select the program group you want this program to fit 
	   into and skip to step f.

	c. Click on File then click New. 
	d. Select Program Group then click the OK button. 
	e. In Description enter "GAMBLERS", then click the OK button.
	f. Click File from the Program Manager, then click New.
	g. Select Program Item then click the OK button.
	h. In the Program Item Properties box enter the following.
	   Description      : "ULTIMATE GIN".
	   Command Line     : "GIN.EXE"
	   Working Directory: (enter the drive and directory as noted in A
	   above.  EXAMPLE: "d:\gin"
	i. Click Change Icon button then click the next OK button.
	j. In the File Name block enter "(drive and directory as noted in A
	   above plus "\GIN.ICO"), then push the OK button. 
	   EXAMPLE: "d:\gin\gin.ico". 
	k. You should see the GIN icon appear as the Program Item Properties
	   dialoge box reappears.  Push the OK button and you are now done.
	
	NOTE: If you have a sound blaster, insure the proper driver is 
	installed through the Windows Control Panel.  You may have to adjust
	the DMA buffer.  If you receive a windows error message advising you
	to adjust the DMA buffer, use an ASCII text editor to add the 
	following line to the [386Enh] section or your windows "system.ini" 
	file.  Add "DMABUFFERSIZE = 017" to this file.

			 OTHER ULTIMATE GAMES

Go where no card player has gone before, into the ULTIMATE ZONE.  These 2
exciting and addictive games will provide hours of entertainment and 
excitement.  Each game has been designed to provide a realistic simulation of
the game it emulates.  These games use keyboard or mouse and require 540K, 
EGA or VGA, DOS 3.1 or above, and a hard disk.  A sound blaster voice pack 
is available for both games.

			    ULTIMATE BLACKJACK

Enter a fully animated casino card game and gambling school where you play
solo against the dealer or with any of 12 computer characters, each with a
different style of play (biographies included!).  Set the number of decks,
change the rules to match any casino, and monitor stats as the game 
progresses.  See how the other player's strategies and bets fare in the long
run.  Want more, how about this -- a simulation feature lets you test custom 
strategies!  You can even use 2 different card counting systems.  Novices 
will also appreciate the slick online tutor that suggests the best moves.  
Even more features are included, but be prepared!  If you take a seat at 
this table you may never get up!  

			     ULTIMATE BACCARAT

Have you always wondered how to play BACCARAT but were afraid to ask?  Relax
and pull up a chair at this friendly baccarat table.  You can play with 3 
computer generated characters, or if you prefer real human companionship, you
can play with up to 5 other "human" players.  A Tutor is provided to take you
through the game step by step.  Once you have learned the game you can turn
the tutor off and go it on your own.  You can check the game stats of any 
player at the table, change game speed, set your own bet amounts, repeat your
last bet, push your last win, or lay a new bet.  All bets are implemented.
The dealer talks you through the game.  Many more features.  Be prepared for 
the best baccarat game in town and you don't even have to learn with 
real money.  

			       TROUBLE SHOOTING

Some Logitech mouse drivers will not interface properly with this game.
If you are using a Logitech mouse and note that the hand pointer will 
not move to the bottom 1/2 of the screen, you may have a mouse driver that 
will not function properly with this game.  If you have access to a Microsoft 
mouse driver, you can substitute it for the Logitech mouse driver in your 
autoexec.bat or config.sys file.  A Microsoft mouse driver will correct the 
problem in most cases.  

				ASP STATEMENT
		  _______                                                
	     ____|__     |                   (R)            
	  --|       |    | ----------------------
	    |   ____|__  |     Association of             
	    |  |       |_|     Shareware
	    |__|   o   |       Professionals 
	  -----|   |   |-------------------------
	       |___|___|       MEMBER        

"This program is produced by a member of the Association of Shareware 
Professionals (ASP).  ASP wants to make sure that the shareware principle 
works for you. If you are unable to resolve a shareware-related problem 
with an ASP member by contacting the member directly, ASP may be able to 
help. The ASP Ombudsman can help you resolve a dispute or problem with an 
ASP member, but does not provide technical support for members' products. 
Please write to the ASP Ombudsman at 545 Grover Road, Muskegon, MI 49442
or send a CompuServe message via CompuServe Mail to ASP Ombudsman 70007,3536.

			    MEMBER ASAD 

