



Thanks for your interest in HardBall 4!



HardBall 4 is the 4th generation of the most successful line of baseball 
products ever available for the IBM PC.  Listed below are the availability
dates, suggested prices, game requirements and many of the features to be 
found in the final game.


Ship Date:       November 1994

Suggested Price: $69.95 Main Game
                 $24.95 MLBPA Add-On Disk

# of players:    1 - 2 players

How to purchase: Visit your local software retailer, or order direct from 
                 Accolade by calling 1-800-245-7744 (in the U.S).



System Requirements:

IBM PC 386-33MHz system
4MB RAM
10MB free disk space (18 MB free disk space if the add-on disk is installed)
DOS 5.0 or greater
VESA SVGA graphics card capable of 640 x 400 or 640 x 480 resolution in 
  256 colors with native support for many graphics chipsets including:
  Paradise, S3, Tseng ET 3000 and 4000, Trident, and more...
Sound Card (recommended) - Supports most major sound boards, including:
  SoundBlaster 16, Pro-Audio Spectrum 16, Gravis Ultrasound, Microsoft Sound
  System, and many more...


Features list:
--------------
Designed completely in SVGA 640 x 400 256 color mode!
All 28 realistically rendered ballparks - Each with different wind, altitude
  and field conditions
All 28 team cities represented
Extensive Play-by-play commentary by Emmy Award-winning sportscaster 
  Al Michaels
See the action from either a batter's or pitcher's view
Saves and updates player stats, league standings for every game during the 
  season
Extensive stats - Batting averages vs. left and right handed pitchers,
  put-outs, assists, wild pitches, percentage of pop-ups, and lots more...
Instant replay - View those close plays over and over again
Automated Highlight reel - Highlights saved automatically from your last game
Track league leaders in over 20 statistical categories, and sort by team, 
  position, and many other ways
Player, pitcher, and team editors - Create the perfect team, and even design
  the logo and choose the jersey colors
Expanded printing functions for rosters, team and player statistics, schedules
  and standings
Modem and network support
Batting and pitching practice, including a "Homerun Derby"
Zooming and panning baserunner windows - Never lose sight of your runners again
Tougher computer opponent - More aggressive base-running, run-downs, and 
  pick-offs
Dramatic close-ups (20% larger than HardBall III)
Incorporates the new league/division realignment


MLBPA Add-On disk features:
---------------------------
700 Real ballplayers, including their photos and stats in the familiar 
  baseball card format
Al Michaels calls each player by their name!


Demo note:
----------

Real ballplayers have been included on this disk for demo purposes only! 
In the final version, the real MLBPA players will be available only on the 
add-on disk.


Note:
-----

If the text above scrolls by too quickly, try typing in:
 
      "TYPE FEATURES.TXT | MORE" and press <enter>

This will pause the text after each screen of information.
