
BATTLE BUGS DEMO

INTRODUCTION

	Battle Bugs is an exciting game of tactical insect warfare. You represent the forces of US, and the object of the game is to defeat your opponent, the forces of THEM, by one of the following methods:

	A) Out-maneuvering, capturing, and successfully holding strategic points (food) on the 	battle field.
	
	B) Destroying all the enemy forces. 

	Your forces will be comprised of ants, lightning bugs, bees, mosquitoes, pill bugs, and other insects, each with varying abilities, strengths, and weaknesses. Your opponents, the forces of THEM, are comprised of spiders, praying mantises, beetles, and other bad bugs, also with varying strengths and abilities. 
	
HOW TO OBTAIN A FULL COPY:

	If you enjoy playing the Battle Bugs demo and wish to obtain a full copy, you may order one from Sierra directly by calling our sales number at 1-800-757-7707, or from your local computer software retailer.

INSTALLATION INSTRUCTIONS

	After you have downloaded and decompressed the Battle Bugs demo, you must first run the BBCONFIG.EXE program from the directory in which you have put the demo. This program will let you specify your video and sound card options for the demo. Once you have made your selections for Video and Sound, accept the choices and save them. You can then run the game by typing BUGS and pressing enter.

HOW TO PLAY

	On the first screen after the title screen, you will have the options to ENLIST, RETIRE, or EXIT. Select ENLIST and type in a name to start your combat career record. Then select either GENERAL VS. GENERAL if you wish to play against a friend, or COMPUTER vs. GENERAL if you wish to play against the computer. RETIRE will delete an enlisted person.
	On the next screen, you will the have the option to CHOOSE BATTLE, REVIEW DECORATIONS, CONTINUE CAMPAIGN, or RESUME SAVED CAMPAIGN. Selecting CHOOSE BATTLE will allow you to select a battle to fight.. REVIEW DECORATIONS will allow you to see any medals and honors bestowed upon you for your courageous victories. CONTINUE CAMPAIGN will continue the last saved campaign you were playing, and RESUME SAVED CAMPAIGN will let you select a saved campaign, should you have multiple ones saved. (You can save more than one campaign under one general.)
	Once you get into the combat screens, complete playing instructions, troop statistics and other miscellaneous information can be accessed from the communications radio on channel 5, in the lower left hand corner of the screen. Click the small up or down arrows to change the channel on the radio.
	

 TROUBLESHOOTING:

	Naturally, we'd like to think this is a "Bug free" demo. However, should you experience any difficulties with it, consult our standard troubleshooting steps below. 

Basic Troubleshooting Techniques for Battle Bugs

1) Run CHKDSK /F or SCANDISK and correct any potential disk problems. Then re-install (decompress) the game and re-run the BBCONFIG.EXE program. You might even consider downloading the demo again, in case there was a problem with the original download.

2) Try using a boot disk with the game to help insure there are no memory resident programs that may cause a problem. We have boot disk instructions available in a file called BDALL you can download. This file also contains an automatic boot disk creator.

3) Sound Card Problems: If you experience any sound card problems, re-run the BBCONFIG.EXE program and try using different sound settings and drivers. Also make sure that any drivers necessary to your sound card's operation are loaded properly and that there are no DMA and IRQ conflicts within the system. You might even try using different DMA and IRQ settings if all else fails. We typically recommend using DMA 1, IRQ 5 and I/O address 220. Consult your sound card documentation for help with configuring your sound card's settings and/or drivers.

HOW TO OBTAIN A FULL COPY:

	Again, if you enjoy playing Battle Bugs, you may order a copy from Sierra directly by calling our sales number at 1-800-757-7707, or from your local computer software retailer.
