                     Su-27 Flanker 
        Feature List for the Commercial Release Version

Strategic Simulations, Inc., Mindscape, and The Fighter Collection are proud to present Su-27 Flanker.  
This highly accurate and complex military flight simulation has a planned release of November-December 
1995.   Below are some of the major features that will be part of the final commercial release of this 
product:

The most accurate flight dynamics ever seen in a flight simulator.

Totally realistic aerodynamics.

Every object in the simulated theatre of operations (the Crimea), from aircraft to weapon 
systems are operated in "real-time".

Spellbinding and detailed animation throughout.

Head to head capability.

Stunning sound effects.

The ability to create totally flexible missions.

Modify ground detail and set atmospheric conditions in selected missions.

Record and replay option - during playback the player can also take over control at any 
time to enable different scenarios to be explored.

Interactive training mode - including demonstrations for take-off, flight patterns, 
landing, aerobatics and delivery of all weapon systems.

Mission Files can be saved and transferred. Users will be encouraged to swap files on the 
Internet. SSI/Mindscape will set up bulletin boards and run competitions for the most 
interesting missions and best aerobatic sequences.

Will compliment the full range of Thrust Master and CH flight sticks.

Exclusive Intel Indeo video containing over 5 minutes of footage showing top Russian 
test Pilot Anatoly Kvotchur flying the Su-27 Flanker in a series of airshow demonstration 
maneuvers.     

Supports 486 DX through to Pentiums and above. The game will feature DOS SVGA and will 
run on Windows '95.

The first in a series of flight simulators being developed by The Fighter Collection.



Look for Su-27 Flanker at all major software retailers or call 1-800-601-PLAY to order.


Su-27 Flanker is a trademark of The Fighter Collection, (c) 1995 Strategic Simulations, Inc., 
a Mindscape Company.  All Rights Reserved.  Windows is a registered trademark of Microsoft 
Corporation.  Features are subject to change.


